OSDOCS-9350: Contentx consolidate Ingress Controller parameter tidy (#77368)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ingress-controller-configuration-parameters.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ingress/ingress-operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="nw-ingress-controller-configuration-parameters_{context}"]
= Ingress Controller configuration parameters

> The `ingresscontrollers.operator.openshift.io` resource includes optional configuration parameters that you can configure to meet specific needs for your organization.

Reviewer: > `ingresscontrollers.operator.openshift.io` resource

I see this is existing text. But, I'm wondering if we should change this to something in English.

The `Infrastructure` custom resource (CR), named `cluster`,  includes.......

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* Azure: `LoadBalancerService` (with External scope)
* Google Cloud Platform (GCP): `LoadBalancerService` (with External scope)
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
For most platforms, the `endpointPublishingStrategy` value can be updated. On GCP, you can configure the following `endpointPublishingStrategy` fields:

* `loadBalancer.scope`
* `loadbalancer.providerParameters.gcp.clientAccess`
endif::openshift-rosa[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
For non-cloud environments, such as a bare-metal platform, use the `NodePortService` or `HostNetwork` fields` to configure the endpoint publishing strategy for your Ingress Controller.

> 

Reviewer 2: Better to add the `Private` fields here:
For non-cloud environments, such as a bare-metal platform, use the `NodePortService` , `HostNetwork` or `Private` fields to configure the endpoint publishing strategy for your Ingress Controller.

Author: Thanks, @ShudiLi . Updated.

If you do not set a value in one of these fields, the default value is based on binding ports specified in the `infrastructure.config.openshift.io/cluster` `.status.platform` resource.
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
If you need to update the `endpointPublishingStrategy` value after your clister is deployed, you can configure the following `endpointPublishingStrategy` fields:

* `hostNetwork.protocol`

> * `nodePort.protocol`

Reviewer 2: better to add  `private.protocol` for the Private endpointPublishingStrategy

Author: Thanks, @ShudiLi . Updated.

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* Azure: `LoadBalancerService` (with External scope)
* Google Cloud Platform (GCP): `LoadBalancerService` (with External scope)
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
For most platforms, the `endpointPublishingStrategy` value can be updated. On GCP, you can configure the following `endpointPublishingStrategy` fields:

* `loadBalancer.scope`
* `loadbalancer.providerParameters.gcp.clientAccess`
endif::openshift-rosa[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

> For non-cloud environments, such as a bare-metal platform, use the `NodePortService`, `HostNetwork`, or `Private' fields` to configure the endpoint publishing strategy for your Ingress Controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For non-cloud environments, such as a bare-metal platform, use the `NodePortService`, `HostNetwork`, or `Private` fields to configure the endpoint publishing strategy for your Ingress Controller.
```

Author: Thanks, @mburke5678 . Fixed!

> If you do not set a value in one of these fields, the default value is based on binding ports specified in the `infrastructure.config.openshift.io/cluster` `.status.platform` resource.

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> If you do not set a value in one of these fields, the default value is based on binding ports specified in the `infrastructure.config.openshift.io/cluster` `.status.platform` resource.

Reviewer: > infrastructure.config.openshift.io/cluster

I see this wording is used elsewhere, so maybe it's just me that is confused.

```suggestion
If you do not set a value in one of these fields, the default value is based on binding ports specified in the `.status.platform` resource` value in the `cluster` Infrastructure object.
```
